# Post Mortem
Use this page to discuss what you learned from completing this assignment.  It should be completed **after** you finish coding your assignment. Your post mortem must be at least 500 words long.  Note that the focus of the paper should be on your reflection, not on structure (e.g. introductory paragraph, conclusion, etc.).  The essay is graded on content (i.e. it shows deep though) rather than syntax (e.g. spelling) and structure.  

Below are some prompts that can be used to get you thinking.  Feel free to use these or to make up your own.
* Describe a particular struggle that you overcame when working on this programming assignment.
* Conversely, describe an issue with your assignment that you were unable to resolve.
* Provide advice to a future student on how he or she might succeed on this assignment.
* Describe the most fun aspect of the assignment.
* Describe the most challenging aspect of the assignment.
* Describe the most difficult aspect of the assignment to understand.
* Provide any suggestions for improving the assignment in the future.


The biggest struggle I had with this assignment happened right at the end, the day it was due. I attempted to change the name and package name of the app. That’s when Visual Studio stopped letting me build the app. The error I had said something along the lines of: ‘resource’ does not exist in the current context. This error plagued me for about an hour and a half while I tried to google a solution. At a certain point into trying these solutions the problem got worse and visual studio stopped loading my project. At this point I gave up on trying to recover that project and created a new one in which I copied over the working code. The issue was still there, but then I realized that I didn’t copy over the resource file, and it went away. That’s when I thought I was safe, so I added a space between the “Roll” and “Last Roll” buttons, and then the same error came back. At this point I was too fed up to try to work out a solution before I had to turn it in, so I just copied all the code into a third project and built it. Hopefully we can go over the android manifest and resources files because currently their inner workings are an enigma to me, and as I’ve heard, a few others in the class. By far, this was the most difficult part of this whole project. Basically every other part of it was easily Google-able. That was the most fun aspect of this project, actually. For everything that I wanted to add to my app, I just googled it and there were some instructions. I actually found one particularly helpful youtube channel that guided me through a bunch of stuff.  This youtube channel had both tutorials on android development with xamarin and stuff on c#. The most fun thing about this project was just learning how to make an android app. It felt good to make something that I will actually use in the future. I have already shown the app to my girlfriend and she plans to use it as well. Actually, she was very helpful in finding bugs. When I first built the app, I handed it to her to try out. She almost immediately crashed it. She tried to roll a negative number of dice. So that’s something else I’ve learned in this project: have other people test your work. 
